apps/ui/content/docs/(root)/roadmap.mdx, before:

---
title: Roadmap
description: Current state of coss ui and where we’re headed next.
---

**coss ui** is the evolution of **Origin UI**, an open-source collection of React and Tailwind components created by Pasquale Vitiello and Davide Pacilio. It was recently **acquired by Cal.com** and grown into a broader, more ambitious ecosystem, with Pasquale contributing directly to the development of the new UI.

Our goal is to **bring together the best parts of Origin UI** with a stronger foundation—Base UI primitives—so developers get not just components, but a layered system of **primitives**, **particles**, and **atoms**.

## Origin UI

Origin UI offered a large collection of 600+ ready-to-use UI components. With the **transition to coss ui**:

- The existing **Origin UI components** will evolve into **particles**—higher-level UI patterns composed of Base UI primitives.
- The original Origin UI collection remains available on [this page](/origin), so developers can continue to access it during the transition.

## Current Status

- **40+ UI primitives** already available, with more on the way.
- A **growing set of particles**, progressively expanding to match and surpass the current Origin UI collection.

## What’s Next

- Expand the **primitives set**, ensuring full coverage of common UI needs.
- Add more **particles**, aligning with and eventually replacing the original Origin UI collection.
- Introduce **atoms**, API-enhanced components that bring external integrations out of the box.

Commit message:

feat(ui): add Prettier and Tailwind CSS plugin, update layout styles, and enhance component structure

apps/ui/content/docs/(root)/roadmap.mdx, after:

---
title: Roadmap
description: Current state of cnippet ui and where we’re headed next..
---

**cnippet** brings components, blocks, and implementation guides together so teams can move from idea to production quickly. Here's how each surface is evolving.

## Current Status

- **ui.cnippet.site (alpha is live, beta in progress):** 40+ core primitives, growing motion components (text effects, marquee, scroll progress, carousel), and early chart components (area, bar, line). Built on Base UI with Tailwind V4 tokens.
- **block.cnippet.site (live):** Sections (hero, features, team, pricing), full pages (landing, about, contact), and complete templates that reuse the same cnippet ui primitives for consistency.
- **next.cnippet.site (alpha in progress):** Practical guides for production tasks—authentication, payment gateways, deployment, observability, and more.

## What’s Next

- **More primitives:** Close gaps across forms, navigation, data display, and overlays.
- **Motion + charts beta:** Expand motion catalog and ship opinionated chart presets with theme-aware defaults.
- **Blocks & templates:** Broaden sections and full templates; keep parity with component updates.
- **Guides library:** Publish deep-dives for auth (NextAuth, custom providers), payments (Stripe and others), file storage, email, and real-time patterns.
- **Atoms:** API-enhanced components that bundle UI with integrations (auth flows, checkout, scheduling) for drop-in usage.
